1.6.6 release notes (#7795)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.6.x/announcing-1.6.6/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6.6
linktitle: 1.6.6
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.6.6 patch release.
publishdate: 2020-07-29
release: 1.6.6
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.6
---

This release contains bug fixes to improve robustness. This release note describes
what’s different between Istio 1.6.5 and Istio 1.6.6.

{{< relnote >}}

## Changes

> - **Optimized** `ResolveGatewayName` to greatly reduce the CPU usage and number of memory allocations.

Reviewer: nit: `ResolveGatewayName` this is a super implementation detail, and ignores more important ones like #25613. I would consolidate this with L21 and L22 to something generic like `Optimized performance in scenarios with large number of gateways` and then just link all the issues/PRs.

Not a strong opinion though

Author: I think combining this and line 22 makes sense. Line 21 seems to have a separate affect which is that users reading through logs have very long log messages. The other two seem directly applicable to performance.

> - **Fixed** `istioctl upgrade` so that it no longer checks remote component versions on dry run. ([Issue 24865](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24865))

Reviewer 2: c/on dry run/when using `--dry-run`/

Author: Done. Thanks.

> - **Fixed** Gateway missing error to produce a short error message even when several clusters with many gateways are present in the configuration.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand this text. I'm guessing this is https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/25610 is maybe 
**Fixed** long log message for clusters with many gateways.

Author: That sounds better. Yeah, that's the same PR.

Author: Done. Thanks.

- **Fixed** route configuration generation to greatly reduce the load when processing virtual services on gateways. ([Issue 25116](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25116))

> - **Fixed** outlier detection to only fire on gateway errors and not depend on success rate.([Issue 25220](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25220))

Reviewer: nit: `gateway errors` -> `user configured errors`.

Also a space after period

Author: Done. Thanks.

> - **Fixed** demo profile to use port 15021 as the status port. Also performed general cleanup of unused resources. ([Issue #25626](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25626))

Reviewer 2: remove performed

Author: Done. Thanks.

> - **Fixed** demo profile to use port 15021 as the status port. Also performed general cleanup of unused resources. ([Issue #25626](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25626))

Reviewer: nit: cleanup is not user facing really

Author: Ok. I listed that because it looks like it's changing the default values in manifests. It looked like they are disabled by default, but if enabled, then the settings would still apply.

- **Fixed** Galley to properly handle errors from Kubernetes tombstones.

> - **Fixed** Istio to encrypt traffic between sidecars and egress gateways.([Issue 23910](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23910))

Reviewer: I think its more accurate to say "Fixed an issue where tls configuration is improperly applied when overriding auto mtls with subset" or something. The fix is not related to GW, just what the reporter happened to be using

Author: Thanks. Talked to Greg to figure out how to clarify the language.

- **Fixed** Bookinfo demo application to verify if a specified namespace exists and if not, use the default namespace.

> - **Added** `pilot_xds` label in order to give more information on data plane versions without scraping the data plane.

Reviewer: nit: "`pilot_xds` label" -> "A label to the `pilot_xds` metric"

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

- **Added** `CA_ADDR` field to allow configuring the certificate authority address on the egress gateway configuration and fixed the `istio-certs` mount secret name.

> - **Updated** Istiod to trigger an endpoint update when a new pod comes in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where out of order events may cause Istiod configuration update queue to get stuck, resulting in stale configuration in proxies.
```

And move it up to the top maybe - its the biggest bug

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

- **Updated** Bookinfo demo application to latest versions of libraries.

> - **Updated** Istio to disable auto mTLS when the cluster type is `Cluster_ORIGINAL_DST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated** Istio to disable auto mTLS when sending traffic to headless services without a sidecar.
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks.
